Difference between Science and engineering
- Science is the study of nature to analyse
- While engineering is the application of that study to create useful things
- Scientists wonder and engineeres solve
- engineeres use scientific knowledge to solve problems
- So they both overlap


Comparison between Eye and a Camera
    -Eye is an organ while camera is an equipment
    -Camera is a type of eye created by humans in an effort of mimicing human eye.


        -Similarities- An eye and a camera both have lenses and light sensitive surfaces
        Iris- Lens of eye.
        Camera lens- Lens used in camera to focus

        Retina is a light sensitive surface which sends "impulses" captured by our eye to our brains 
            through "optic nerves"
            which then processes the information.The image recieved is  inverted.
            The Human eye contains small muscles that contract and relax and this allows the eyes to change shape and stay focused  on a moving object.

            Camera lens cannot do it.(They Change lenses) 


        In a Camera , the aperture controls the amount of light entering like iris in our eye.
        Then Light makes its way to a light sensitive surface which was a film but today this surface is an imaging sensor chip.
    
   Similarities in anatomy- 
    Camera- Eye

    Film- Retina
    Diaphragm- iris
    aperture- Pupil
    Lens- Lens(cornea)
    Black paint- Choroid

    Cornea- Cap of the eye(Transparent jelly )Has a spherical curvature.

    Lens- It is also transparent and sits at the front of the body of camera
    (also has a spherical curvature)
    These curvature allows for the eye and camera to view, though not in focus, a limited area to both the right and the left .


    Both the eye and camera can adjust the quantity of light entering 
    In camera- aperture
    In eye- Pupil and iris


    Focus- Human and camera lenses both focus an inverted image onto light sensitive surface
    Both have the ability of auto focus which focuses on one object and blurs the other.

    Both have limited scope and field of view
    because the curvature of the eye and lens allow them to take image of what is not in front of them.
    But eye has fixed field of view but Of Camera, it can change.

    Retina contain two type of photoreceptors- 
    Cones and rods
    Rods (allow to see in low light)(Cats have more cone like eyes thats why they can see in dark efficiently)
    Cones(allow us to see colour)

    Camera has photoreceptors but they only have one type.
    THey respond to RGB Lights only and they are evenly distributed across the lens
    while in Retina, The cones are at the center of retina without rods.


Comparison between bird and camera
    `Birds{
        Streamlined shapes( for reduction in air drag)
        Glossy body ( for reduced air drag)

    }
    Airplanes[human made birds]{
        also have Streamlined bodies(for the obvious reasons)
        Polished surfaces(Cmon , I dont want to repeat it.)

    }

    Early Draft of Aircraft(with Wings flapping )

    Similarities{
        Structure(streamlined)
        Made of light materials - light bones and feathers 
         Wings(Redbull also has them)
         Front part is also pointed of both 

         {Techniques-
         Can glide for long distances(no or minimal Energy used)
         Helicopters hover as birds do . 
         Diving Techniques also shown in Airshows


         }
         Movement in the Air{
            Plane uses Different movable parts
            and birds also use it.(for direction purposes)
            For controlling horizons across vertical and horizontal positions

         }
         Flight pattern of V shape{
            They Both Fly in V shape when in flock
            (aids in collaboration
            - Reason - 
            It adds more Energy to the group
            for extra miles covered)
            keep changing positions  in the stack, which helps them go for long distances.
            Same thing is used in jet and airshows.
            This saves upto 15% of jet fuel in Vshape

         }
     Landing-
     Both gain and lose elevation with the variation of drag and lift force.

      Both of them control their landing process by the use of their motion controllers.
      Birds usually generate a resistance by flapping their wings while the Aircraft move the ailerions , elevator and apply brakes
      
    }
 
 Need for biology in engineering-
 Engineers should know basic Bio to know and apply this knowledge in real life scenarios.
 So that they can better interact and better understand the biosystems, their problems 
 and provide apt solutions.


 Bio engineering  is the application of principles of bio and the tools of engineering to create 
 Efficient products for use case.

    These engineers attempt to mimic bio systems to solve a real world problem and 
    and better solve the problems using these natured mechanisms .


    Biommicry involves the translation of knowledge obtained from the natural world into new innovations .

    When We are able to learn from natural things like the coconut or the wind and make real world products that mimics their design.
    This is called bio Inspired design.
    Natural lessons can be translated into new ideas and innovations in products, lifestyle and organizational forms.

    Biommicry or biomimetics
    Toys which replicate human movement,
    Prosthetics and neurilink.

    Examples of Bio design
    whale:Wind turbine

    Humpback Whale(-36 tonnes(Excellent swimmer)){

        Excellent swimmer{
      (tubercles)  This helps them reduce drag and be an excellent swimmer.
         because of the Of the bumpy protrusions(Extended part of whale outside body)
         Arrangement of these angles increases or decreases their lift .
         scientists studied this and applied on wind turbines and it increased the Efficiency by almost 40 percent.\


        }}
    BoxFish:Bionic car

    Boxfish{
        low flow resistance and a drag coefficient of 0.06.
        Penguins- 0.19
        
        Inspired by this- Mercedes developed Bionic Car.{
            Lower fuel consumption, low weight and great rigidity
        }
    }

        Bird Safe Glass-
        {
            Many birds die by hitting into the glass.
            Scientists from Ornilux  made a glass that reflects UV strands which birds see and avoid saving their lives


        }
    Kingfisher and the Shinkansen{
        Japan inspired from the kingfisher 
        and developed The Shinkansen with long beak to not create sonic boom while emerging from tunnels.

         This reduces the noise of the train and also consumes 15 percent less electricity and travels 10 percent faster.



    }
    Butterfly and solar cell{

        The rose Butterfly has tiny cells on its intricate and delicate wings that collect light at any angle.

        The black wings of the rose butterfly have inspired a new type 
        of solar cell that is two times more Efficient in harvesting light.
        
    }

Biology= (bios-life)+(logos-dicoursal)

    The three laws of Thermo-
    1 The energy cannot be created nor destroyed
    2 The entropy of a system always increases
    3 Absolute temperature cannot be achieved
    


    